Q) What are the similarities between the array and the linked list?
A) Both are sequentially arranged blocks of memory that store homogenous data.

Q) Why linked lists instead of arrays?
A) Arrays are system managed memory blocks.
Their life is under systems control and their size is predecided.
Where as linked lists are application managed memory blocks
for which the life is under applications control and size can be dynamically decided.

Q) Why is node termed as a "referential struct"?
A) node is termed as a "referential struct" because 
one of its member is a pointer of its own type.

Q) When a linked list supports dynamic expansion and shrink of size, then why to use arrays ever?
A) Because arrays support direct access of elements, so more efficient at execution level.

Q) Why is a Stack termed as a LIFO data structure?
A) A stack is a linear DS. 
It has only one open end.
The same is used for data 
insertion and extraction.
While insertion data is overlapped 
one on another.
So the value that is inserted 
last appears to be at the top.
While extraction data is taken 
out in top to bottom order.
Due to approach of data insertion
and extraction it is termed as
Last In First Out data structure.

Q) Why to prefer a do-while loop for processing CLL?
A) For a CLL the initialization and condition are same.
So they contradict in case a for or a while loop is used.
A do while allows one iteration and hence the reinitialization removes the contradication.

Q) Why the node of a tree is initialized to store NULL in its pointers?
A) Because as per the connection approach every new inserted node is a leaf.
And for a leaf there are no childs, hence its pointers are set to NULL.

Q) What is DFS?
A) DFS is acronym to Depth First Search.
It is a traversal approach followed in trees and graphs.
Its policy is to visit child node first rather than the sibling node.
PreOrder traversal of tree is also known as DFS.

Q) What is BFS?
A) BFS is acronym to Breadth First Search.
It is a traversal approach followed in trees and graphs.
Its policy is to visit sibling node first rather than the child node.
Levelwise traversal of tree is also known as BFS.